3D style	graffiti style which is focused on 3D blocks and the three-dimensional appearance of the graffiti
angels	graffiti artists, who got fame and already passed away
all city	achieving fame in a whole city through one’s tag or a catchy graffiti piece/throw-up. The original meaning was to be known/famous in the five Boroughs of New York City (The Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhatten, Queens, Staten Island) by placing one’s graffiti and tags on subways to be seen all around the city
autorack	goods train with surfaces easy to spray on
back-to-back (b2b)	gf a graffiti covers a whole wall/carriage from end-to-end (e2e), it will be called back-to-back.
backjump	A “backjump” is a very fast sprayed graffiti on a train during a stop at a station.
blackbook	A sketchbook for graffiti sketches. It usually has a black cover, so it is called “blackbook” as well.
blockbuster	Simple, huge letters characterize a blockbuster. The graffiti’s aim is to cover as much of a background as possible. Often done with silver or white coloring.
bite	To bite means to copy or steal a tag or piece of another sprayer. Do not mix gathering inspiration with copying.
block	A three-dimensional shadow of a graffiti.
bombing	The art of illegally spraying graffiti. Tags and throw-ups are sprayed mostly.
bubble style	The letters of a bubble style graffiti are round and partially overlap each other. They look like balloons a bit, which seem to fly away. The rounding of letters of throw-ups led to the bubble style. Thus bubble style graffiti are often done in two colors only, like throw-ups.
buff	remove graffiti, or removing materials; also: painting over it with the color of the background to remove it
burner	Very well done graffiti piece with many details. Often used to compliment other writers
busted	Getting arrested by the police for doing illegal Graffiti.
C
can	spray paint can/ aerosol can
cap	A nozzle made out of plastic for paint cans. Different types of caps can achieve different spray effects like sharp lines or soft fadings.
characters	Abbreviation for “cartoon character”. It is painted next to a graffiti to create a scenario around the graffiti piece.
crew	A group of writers collaborating together.
cross	“To cross” means to paint over an existing not appreciated graffiti with a quick throw-up, tag or just lines.
cut	Redefine lines by using the background color to make them look more straight.
D
drip marker (mop)	a graffiti marker with round nib, which is used for tagging
drips	unwanted paint tears, if the can is not moved fast enough; sometimes also used as an element of style
dubs	Graffiti done in silver/chrome (silver style) – originally from London/UK
E
end-to-end	Train carriages with graffiti covering the whole length. If the graffiti pieces also cover top-to-bottom, it is called a wholecar.
F
fading	Transition between two colors; gradient
fat cap	Fat caps are caps constructed to fill big areas or draw thick lines.
fill ins	The coloring of a graffiti piece is called “fill in”
fire extinguisher	A fire extinguisher is filled with diluted paint and used to create huge ugly tags.
freestyle	Graffiti done without preparation or sketch.
G
ghost	a piece of streetart which was tried to be removed but is still visible
graffiti Artists
Josef Kyselak (already tagged his initial letters in the 19th century in Austria)
Taki183 – first documented writer in New york
Seen
CanTwo
Banksy
Daim
Skore79
graffiti Brands
Montana
Molotow
Ironlak
Flame
Stylefile
Belton
graffiti markers	There are different kind of graffiti markers: e.g.: drip markers – markers for tagging; markers for drawing handstyles: like Grog, Stylefile or Toki markers; alcohol based pens to draw graffiti sketches – like Stylefile or Copic markers – good for drawing gradients. Acryl base markers – used for highlights or coloring graffiti without gradients (Molotow markers)
graffiti styles
3D-style
bubble-style
semi-wildstyle
silver style
simple-style
stencils
wildstyle
graffiti movies
Wildstyle: first graffiti movie from 1982.
Wholetrain – german graffiti movie from 2007
Banksy – exit through the gift shop (2010)
beat street (1984)
going over	Completely covering an existing graffiti.
H
Hall of fame	“Halls of fame” are places with lots of high-quality graffiti. It is usually legal to spray there.
hall (of fame) piece	A “hall piece” therefore is a graffiti piece sprayed in a hall of fame.
handstyle	term for a tag/writer’s signature; tags with more complexity, sophisticated individual styles
heavens	Heaven spots are rooftops, bridges or chimneys for instance. It is hard to spray there and it is easy to get caught by the police, but the graffiti is seen from many people and from far away and it is not that easy to remove it.
highlight	reflection of light as an element of style usually sprayed as a star
hollows	A throw-up without a fill in; just the outline is sprayed
I
Insides	tags/throw-ups inside of a train
K
keyline	the outline around a whole graffiti piece
king	Kings are respected, well skilled writer. This status can be achieved by getting props from another king. Crowns used in tags can be used to show this status, but also can be just a stylistic element.
L
landmark	A tag which is nor removed for more than 5 years.
line piece	A graffiti piece sprayed next to rail tracks. Often done on noise barriers.
M
married couple	Two wholecars next to each other
mural	Large graffiti piece created in a complex manner. Often in wildstyle or 3D style with characters, and/or detailed background.
O
one-liner	A throw-up or tag done in one line without interrupting the movement of drawing this line.
old school	Used as a prefix for an experienced writer or graffiti style from decades ago – mostly basic tags and throw-ups from the 1970/80s.
outline	contour of graffiti letters, a piece
P
panel	A small graffiti on a train car usually done under the windows and somewhere between the doors. “Flying panels” are a sub-category and are sprayed above the windows.
paste-up	 a stencil graffiti (or drawing) on paper attached to a wall with wallpaper paste
pichacao	brazilian form of tagging
piece	Abbreviation for “masterpiece” – a graffiti created in a complex manner. Often in wildstyle or 3D style with characters and/or detailed background.
punition	Repeating a word/tag in order to cover a whole surface as a style of graffiti.
R
to rack / racking	stealing graffiti supplies
rollerpiece / roller	Not very common form of graffiti. A graffiti only done with paint rollers. The disadvantage of this technique is that it only allows block letters. Not easily reachable areas can be painted and big letters can be created fast on the other hand.
rooftop	Graffiti foolhardy sprayed being on top of a building – Like on roof edges or chimneys.
run	length of time a graffiti stays in is place before it is covered up or removed.
S
semi-wildstyle	Already harder to read than simple style but not that complex as a wildstyle graffiti. Wildstyle graffiti have lots of effect, style elements, are arranged in a complex way, so they are really hard to read. The semi-wildstyle already uses some of them but not an extent that the graffiti is not readable anymore.
silver style	Like the name already implies: graffiti letters only painted in silver. Shadows and outlines are usually painted in black. The silver color makes it possible to paint on structured surfaces.
simple style	The letters of a simple style graffiti are easy to read und not arranged in a complex way. The fillins usually consist of 1-3 colors. There are not a lot of style elements used.
skinny cap	A cap designed to create exact lines.
slam	Spraying in very dangerous places
slash	Crossing someone else’s graffiti with one line.
soak up	Get inspired by other pieces, tags and letters.
soft cap	A cap designed to create fadings and for instance dust effects
stainer	A marker for tagging.
standard-cap	As the word already implies – a cap with no specific focus: industrial standard
station	Tags and throw-ups inside or next to a train station.
stencil
sticker	A way to spread one’s tag. Stickers with the tag on it are placed around the city. “Hello my name is” – sticker are most popular.
straight letter	Simple style letters using only two colors
T
tag / graffiti tags	The signature of a writer – a line graffiti in one color with calligraphic and/or styled letters. Many famous sprayers use short synonyms – like “Daim” or “Seen”.
Red graffiti tag spotted in Paris
throw-up	Meaning: Fast sprayed, simple graffiti with usually only one colored fill-ins. Tags and throw-ups (also “throwies”) are the two most basic types of graffiti. They can be sprayed quickly and thus are used to reach a large audience.
top-to-bottom	(T2B) – So called “top-to-bottom” pieces cover the entire height of a train carriage.
topping	To paint one’s graffiti directly above of someone else’s piece. This behaviour can be considered as passive-aggressive confrontation.
toy	a beginner or graffiti writer with no skills
W
whole car	A carriage of a train completely covered in graffiti
wholetrain	A train completely covered in graffiti.
wildstyle	Very abstract, three-dimensional letters with many details – like arrows – added and complex coloring and backgrounds characterize wildstyle graffiti pieces. It is often very hard or impossible to read them because the size of letter elements vary and the letters are very abstract already.
window-down	If a graffiti is sprayed below the window of a train car, it is called window-down graffiti. “window-down”- is also often used as a prefix for whole-cars.
woodblock graffiti	Not very common form of graffiti. A piece of streetart done on cheap wood and usually attached to lampposts.
writer	A synonym for “sprayer” or “graffiti artist”.